1. After a multidisciplinary evaluation, at the end of November 2019, a 13-year-old girl attended the Pain Therapy Clinic of the Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù in Rome, where acupuncture is also practiced as an analgesic technique. She reported pain in the left wrist and hand, with intensity 10 on the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NRS), pulsating, and always present, thus preventing any movement. Marked hypersensitivity and allodynia were present at the level of the left fingers, wrist and hand. Pain was present in both flexion and extension of the wrist and caused a marked reduction in strength in the left wrist and hand, making a handshake impossible for the girl. There was no redness but swelling and sweating at the level of the fingers of the left hand. The pain was so intense that it interfered with her regular attendance at school, generating social withdrawal phenomena, which are unfortunately very frequent in patients with chronic pain.\nPain began three months before the consultation, after an accidental fall with trauma to the left wrist. It gradually increased and did not respond to either NSAIDs or limb immobilization. The diagnostic tests performed at the time (X-ray, Doppler ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging) were negative, as were the blood chemistry tests ( and ).\nFrom the age of 8, the girl was followed by a pediatrician in our hospital for a history of cramps and pain in the lower limbs, especially in the ankle and left knee, both in the absence of trauma or caused by frequent falls. In the following years, clinicians found bilateral flatfoot (with subsequent surgery), mild ligamentous hyperlaxity and vitamin D deficiency. In addition, borderline cognitive level with motor coordination disorder and executive function deficit, as well as stuttering, were then diagnosed. Elements of anxiety emerged from the administration of Self Administered Psychiatric Scales for Children and Adolescents (SAFA-A, D and S) questionnaires, as highlighted in particular by the subscales “Separation anxiety” and “Generalized anxiety” [,]. Concern for one’s own health was observed, with experiences of herself as being ill; the scores indicate a propensity to somatize. There was a tone of mood oriented in a deflected sense, and insecurity. The results of the Lie scale were: 8; T: 65 [,]. In addition to pulsating headache with phono and photophobia, frontal epilepsy was also diagnosed, which could explain the frequent falls, and moreover had excluded hyperbaric oxygen therapy as a feasible regimen in this case (due to a cost/benefit evaluation, and increased exposure to oxygen toxicity during the treatment itself). Episodes of dizziness with difficulty in maintaining an upright position lasting a few hours were also observed, and on two occasions she also had an episode of unconsciousness lasting about 2 min.\nDuring the first visit, as a consequence of the mother’s need to have time to convince the recalcitrant daughter, in the meantime it was recommended to administer oral tramadol (100 mg/mL), 5 gtt in the morning and 5 gtt in order to reduce musculoskeletal pain. The reason for choosing a drug such as tramadol rather than any other pharmacological option lies in the fact that the pain was so intense that it affected the patient’s relationships []. We therefore opted for a drug that would have an immediate effect, so as to be able to undertake the acupuncture course. Subsequently, in the first two sessions, after careful disinfection of the skin with 2% chlorhexidine, and using the appropriate needles for length and diameter based on the type of acupuncture and the selected points, we used the following acupoints: TE 4 (Yang Pool), TE 5 (Waiguan), LI 5 (Yang Xi) and SI 4 (Wan Gu), all on the left side. These points were chosen on the basis of a pathology which, according to traditional Chinese medicine, was caused by cold wind. These points produced heat and dissipated the wind []. The needles were kept for 30′, with stimulation every 10′. In the third session, the girl reported a slight improvement in the painful symptoms but at the same time unbearable pain in the affected limb during the previous sessions due to the insertion and maintenance of the needles in the affected area. We decided to change strategy and to use abdominal acupuncture and stimulation of the points CV 4 (Guan Yuan), CV 12 (Zhong Wan), CV 16 (Zhong Ting), CV 17 (Shan Zong), ST 24 bilateral (Huaroumen) and KI 17 bilateral (Shang Qu), with appropriate needles and maintaining the same interspeed and time of stimulation. The needles were inserted to a depth of 0.2 cun. These new points (CV 4, CV 12, CV 16, CV 17 and KI 17), in addition to heating and dissipating the wind, re-established the correct circulation of qi []. In fact, used in combination, their purpose was to move the qi from the kidney to the extremity of the upper limb passing through the shoulder [,]. ST 24 was used to calm the patient and increase her compliance with acupuncture [].\nAuriculotherapy was also associated with Vaccaria seeds on the Wrist, Hand and Shenmen points, with the recommendation to stimulate them at home for 10 min, 4 times a day until the next session. Vaccaria seeds are used to stimulate certain points in auriculotherapy due to their almost spherical shape, and the absence of pharmacological properties []. The Shenmen point was chosen for its anxiolytic effect, given the patient’s psychological difficulties [].\nAfter eight sessions (two months) of abdominal acupuncture the pain completely disappeared (Numeric Pain Rating Scale value 0) and the girl regained full functional capacity of the arm and a normal life. Follow-up at three months, six months and one year demonstrated complete remission of symptoms, with constant values of NRS equal to 0. The reduction in pain, and subsequently its total disappearance, allowed the patient to resume normal school attendance, and therefore to resume a life of normal, balanced relationships.


2. A 24-year-old healthy woman presented with difficulty
breathing and dissatisfaction with her facial appearance. She
had a history of nasal septum deviation and external nasal
deformity. Four months after a successful septorhinoplasty,
she experienced blunt nasal trauma resulting in a septal
hematoma, which was drained successfully. The patient was
discharged with no adverse sequelae. Four months later, she
sustained nasal trauma again, accompanied by clear nasal
discharge, raising suspicion of a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
leak. She was discharged after management, as CT brain
showed no evidence of CSF leak. Ten days later, the pa-
tient presented with dizziness and unstable gait. She reported
paresthesia in the right hand, progressing to the right arm
and leg, along with difficulty in finger movements and a stiff
right leg. She also reported a history of pain in the right eye
and double vision, which had resolved. Examination revealed
sensory impairment on the right side, with positive Rombergs
and Lhermittes signs. MRI of the brain and cervical spine
demonstrated demyelinating lesions, some with enhancement,
suggestive of active demyelinating disease such as multiple
sclerosis (MS). Lumbar puncture confirmed the presence of
oligoclonal bands in the CSF. A neurologist confirmed the
diagnosis of MS, and treatment was initiated. The patients
neurological symptoms have largely resolved, with only mild
residual paresthesia in the right hand. Two years later, she
continues on the same medication with good tolerance and no
new symptoms.



3. The patient is a 91-year-old Caucasian man with a past medical history of coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, interstitial lung disease, and obstructive sleep apnea presented with a 2-week history of productive cough, fever, shortness of breath and generalized malaise. On presentation, vitals showed blood pressure of 77/35 mmHg, heart rate of 122 bpm, respiratory rate of 38 bpm, a temperature of 102 F, and oxygen saturation of 98% on 15 L of oxygen. The patient was diaphoretic, with decreased breath sounds in the right lung field, and on palpation of the abdomen, there was right upper quadrant fullness.\nInitial laboratory studies showed elevated white blood cells (WBC) 22.6 × 109/L with neutrophilia, bicarbonate 21 mmol/L, lactic acid 6.5 mmol/L, anion gap 17, ALT 71 IU/L, AST 69 IU/L, and ALP 450 IU/L. ECG showed atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response. CXR showed acute right pleural effusion (). The patient was intubated for respiratory failure. He was also started on antibiotics (piperacillin-tazobactam and azithromycin) and intravenous normal saline with no improvement in blood pressure. The patient was then started on intravenous vasopressor support with norepinephrine and vasopressin and admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU).\nDue to the right upper quadrant fullness, elevated liver enzymes and fever, an abdominal ultrasound was performed, which showed an acute complex heterogeneous hypoechoic 8 × 7 × 6 cm mass-like lesion in the right hepatic lobe ().\nTo better characterize the lesion, a CT abdomen was done. The CT showed a complex low-density right hepatic lobe subcapsular lesion measuring 13 × 8 × 7 cm, directly abutting the right anterior diaphragm, along with diffuse gross gallbladder wall thickening with cholelithiasis and a moderate right pleural effusion ().\nThe patient underwent chest tube placement with the removal of 1600 cc of cloudy light-brown-colored fluid. Pleural fluid analysis was consistent with empyema, with WBC of 70,800 cells/mcL (61% neutrophils), glucose less than 10 mg/dL, LDH of 4821 IU/L, pH of 7.0, protein of 3.6 gm/dL, and Gram stain showing Gram-positive cocci in chains. Cytology was negative for malignant cells but showed severe acute inflammation and rare mesothelial cells. The blood culture on admission grew beta-hemolytic streptococci. The pleural fluid culture grew Streptococcus anginosus. On day two of hospitalization, the patient was scheduled for CT percutaneous drainage of liver abscess. However, the CT revealed a significant decrease in the size of the right subdiaphragmatic perihepatic collection to 1.5 cm in greatest thickness ().\nDue to the improvement of the hepatic collection, the CT-guided drainage of the collection was not performed. Following the persistence of pleural effusion and decreased effluent from the chest tube, an intrapleural thrombolytic was instilled via chest tube with the removal of 1.5 L exudative fluid. Repeat CXR showed improvement in the right pleural effusion (), and the patient was successfully extubated on day three of hospitalization.\nHis hospital course was subsequently complicated by new onset and worsening respiratory distress on day eight of hospitalization requiring re-intubation. Repeat CT chest showed diffuse narrowing of the left mainstem bronchus, occlusion of right posterior segmental bronchi with atelectasis, complete collapse of the left lower lobe due to occlusion of left lower lobe central bronchi with trace right pleural effusion ().\nEmergent flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy was done and showed copious thick mucopurulent secretions that were suctioned to clear. The bronchoalveolar lavage grew Candida albicans, which was not thought to be a pathogen. After two weeks of hospitalization and the inability to wean the patient from the ventilator, the patient was terminally extubated, and care was focused on comfort.



4. A 55 year old Hindu male farmer presented with cough, production of white mucoid sputum of moderate amount for one month and recurrent episodes of profuse haemoptysis of same duration. He had no history of fever, dyspnoea, chest pain or bleeding from othet; sites. There was no loss of appetite or weight. There was no history of anti - tuberculous drugs intake in the past. He was normotensive and nondiabetic. He was taking about 10 – 12 bidis / day for last 30 years.\nOn physical examination, he was of average built and nutrition with moderate anaemia but no clubbing, lymphadenopathy, edema or rise of temperature. Respiratory rate and heart rate were 24 / min. and 12q / min. respectively. His blood pressure was 100 / 76 mm Hg. Examination of respiratory system revealed only bilateral basal coarse crepitations. Examination of other systems was unremarkable.\nOn admission, he had haemoglobin of 8 g % with normal total and differential white blood cell count and normal platelet count (1.9 Lacs / cmm.). Bleeding time and clotting time were 1 min. 10 sec. and 4 min. 45 sec. respectively. Fasting plasma glucose, serum creatinine, liver function tests were within normal limits. Sputum was negative for acid fast bacilli (AFB). Chest X - ray PA view revealed no abnormality (). HIV 1, 2 serology was non - reactive. The patient was resuscitated with i.v. antibiotics, cough suppressants, hemostatics and 4 units of blood transfusion, following which his general condition improved with rise of haemoglobin to 11.2 g %.\nFibreoptic bronchoscopy (FOB) revealed a small polyPOid lesion in the posterior wall of left main bronchus () and a clot in the apicoposterior segment of left upper lobe bronchus. Bronchial washings and brushings were taken. The polypoid mass was removed bronchoscopically by biopsy forceps () and sent for histopathological examination. Bronchial washings revealed predominance of neutrophils along with few benign respiratory epithelial cells but no malignant cell and no AFB. Bronchial brushings also showed acute inflammatory cells but malignant cell or AFB was not detected. Histopathological examination of specimen revealed a polyp lined by ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium with underlying stroma which was made up of fibrocollagenous tissue, extravasated blood and seromucinous glands, consistent with diagnosis of endobronchial fibroma ().\nPost - bronchoscopic period was uneventful. During a follow up for 12 months, there was no haemoptysis and follow up bronchoscopy at 12th month revealed no recurrence of the tumour.



5. A 20-something-year-old male presents with a history of a fall from a low-height cliff yesterday. He denies any loss of consciousness, external bleeding, or vomiting. He reports a mild headache, sore throat, and general malaise. No visual changes, focal neurological deficits, or severe head trauma signs noted. The headache is described as dull, non-pulsatile, and global. He also complains of mild dizziness but remains oriented and alert.
Additionally, the patient mentions that his father visited the hospital for his lab results, which showed evidence of possible dengue fever with mild thrombocytopenia. The patient reports low-grade fever and recent fatigue but denies abdominal pain, bleeding, or rash. He also mentions rectal discomfort described as low-grade fever or warmth — possibly subjective or due to systemic viral effects.



6. Patient presents with a recent fall from a cliff approximately 24 hours ago. Since the incident, he has developed a headache, subjective dizziness, and a sensation of altered balance. He denies vomiting or seizures but is concerned about a potential head injury. No visible bleeding was noted at the time of injury. The headache is persistent and moderately severe, and he reports feeling mentally “foggy.”
No loss of consciousness was reported; however, the mechanism of injury (fall from height) raises concern for internal cranial pathology. He also reports systemic symptoms including sore throat and fever, which may or may not be related to the trauma.
Family history includes a report of possible dengue fever and coagulopathy in the patient's father, but the patient has no prior history of bleeding disorders.